README.md, before:

# 🔥 Stale Port Cleanup

Sometimes Docker crashes or forgets to release ports, leaving behind **ghost docker-proxy processes** that keep ports like `3306`, `8080`, or any other port stuck in “address already in use” mode.  

This script helps you identify and clean these stale port bindings safely.

---

## 🚀 Why This Happens

Docker can leave ports stuck when:

- A container crashes
- A container is removed without proper cleanup
- Docker restarts unexpectedly
- System shutdown interrupts Docker
- You previously mapped a port like `3306:3306`

When this happens, the port stays busy even though **no container is using it**.  
This script fixes that.

---

## 🛠️ How It Works

1. Checks what process is using the port  
2. Detects ghost `docker-proxy` processes  
3. Kills them safely  
4. Restarts Docker to refresh all port mappings  

---

## 📌 Manual Steps (If You Want to Do It Yourself)

### **1. Check what’s using the port**
```bash
sudo ss -ltnp | grep <port_number>
```
Example Output
users:(("docker-proxy",pid=2550,fd=7))
2. Kill the ghost process
```bash
sudo kill -9 <pid_number>
```
3. Restart Docker
```bash
sudo systemctl restart docker
```

## 📂 File Overview

When you clone this repository, you will get **three files**:

- `README.md` – This guide and instructions  
- `script.sh` – The automated script to clean ports  
- `script.txt` – Manual instructions for cleaning ports  

### How to use:

- **Manual cleanup:** Open and follow the steps in `script.txt`.  
- **Automatic cleanup:** Use `script.sh`. Make sure to open the file and enter the port number you want to clean when prompted.

Commit message:

Update README with contribution and license sections
Added contribution guidelines and license information.

README.md, after:

# 🔥 Stale Port Cleanup

Sometimes Docker crashes or forgets to release ports, leaving behind **ghost docker-proxy processes** that keep ports like `3306`, `8080`, or any other port stuck in “address already in use” mode.  

This script helps you identify and clean these stale port bindings safely.

---

## 🚀 Why This Happens

Docker can leave ports stuck when:

- A container crashes
- A container is removed without proper cleanup
- Docker restarts unexpectedly
- System shutdown interrupts Docker
- You previously mapped a port like `3306:3306`

When this happens, the port stays busy even though **no container is using it**.  
This script fixes that.

---

## 🛠️ How It Works

1. Checks what process is using the port  
2. Detects ghost `docker-proxy` processes  
3. Kills them safely  
4. Restarts Docker to refresh all port mappings  

---

## 📌 Manual Steps (If You Want to Do It Yourself)

### **1. Check what’s using the port**
```bash
sudo ss -ltnp | grep <port_number>
```
Example Output
users:(("docker-proxy",pid=2550,fd=7))
2. Kill the ghost process
```bash
sudo kill -9 <pid_number>
```
3. Restart Docker
```bash
sudo systemctl restart docker
```

## 📂 File Overview

When you clone this repository, you will get **three files**:

- `README.md` – This guide and instructions  
- `script.sh` – The automated script to clean ports  
- `script.txt` – Manual instructions for cleaning ports

## 🤝 Contribute

Found a weird port issue? PRs are welcome — help devs survive haunted ports together.

---

## 🎖️ License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).  
© 2025 Aditya-das-4707-e


### How to use:

- **Manual cleanup:** Open and follow the steps in `script.txt`.  
- **Automatic cleanup:** Use `script.sh`. Make sure to open the file and enter the port number you want to clean when prompted.
